We had our own house,
a certain amount of comfort.
My husband had a stable job,
and I was doing a lot where we were.
I had Bible studies.
I was already a regular pioneer,
so I thought I was doing enough.
It was fine to stay there.
We’d often see the younger ones
going to Bethel,
going to serve as special pioneers.
And once we reached our 40’s,
I thought that since we’re getting older,
we won’t be able to reach out
and do more for Jehovah.
But after a letter
was read to the congregations,
well, that was really
the starting point for us to see
that we could do more for Jehovah.
When I heard that there was
a school for couples up to 65 years old,
I said, “Cristiano, it’s now or never.”
So immediately at the first convention
that held a meeting for interested couples,
we attended the meeting
and realized that out of the requirements
there was one
that my husband didn’t meet yet,
which was two years as a regular pioneer.
So I thought, ‘Why not?’
After the convention,
I applied to be a regular pioneer.
So we made plans to attend the school.
But we didn’t want to stay there
waiting to be accepted,
as there were no guarantees of being accepted
in the same year in which we applied.
We sold our house.
And two weeks later,
we had sold all the furniture.
So we made arrangements
to serve where the need was greater.
We took only what was necessary in our car.
But “what is necessary” is always too much.
When you get to the territory, you realize
you didn’t even need everything you took.
We were really excited because we knew
the brothers were expecting us.
There was a gas station
that belonged to a brother,
and when we arrived,
the whole congregation
was waiting for us there
to welcome us.
Nine people!
And that had a great impact on us,
because you could see
the expression on their faces;
it was as if they were asking for help.
They helped us a lot.
I can honestly say
that they helped us more
than we helped them.
Now they would be able
to have regular meetings
—a public talk every week.
You know, we were in São Paulo
and we had all the meetings.
But in these remote areas, they need
spiritual food from Jehovah so much.
But there needs to be people
willing to go and help.
Then one day,
we had a wonderful surprise.
A brother called me and said,
“Cristiano, have you checked your e-mails?”
We’d received a letter
inviting us to the school.
The school really is a gift from Jehovah.
I’ve encouraged others that I know
to attend the school
because you really feel
how Jehovah cares for his organization.
And a small thing we can do
is simply give our best,
and the school helps us do just that
—find out what is our best.
We were assigned
to a congregation called Itiruçu.
The brothers are very loving,
and we’re really happy in our assignment.
I do miss my house.
It’s nice to have your own house
and not to have to worry about paying rent.
I miss my hairdresser.
But nothing compares
to the blessings and the joy
that comes from serving
where there’s a need.
This joy helps us to combat
any homesickness we feel
and stops us from developing
any desire to go back home.
In the big city,
everything’s very rushed.
I would only see my wife
when I got home from work.
I’d be tired, and then also
have to care for congregational matters.
So there wasn’t much time
for us to be together.
Now it’s completely different.
We have much more time
—during the ministry,
in the congregation,
being together at home.
So for us as a family,
it has been very positive, very good.
We’re not tired.
We’re not old in the sense—
No we’re not.
—of saying that we’ve got no more to give.
We really believe we can do more for Jehovah.
And we want to do more for Jehovah.
The school is proof
that he wants us to do more.
We want to use our life to the full
to serve Jehovah wherever he sends us.
We are willing to go.
We feel it’s the only way
to say a big “thank you”
to Jehovah
for everything he’s done for us
—the territory, school,
the brothers, and Bible students.
What better way to thank Jehovah.